Update MKS / LoadBalancer with Octavia integration - Lint, fixes and new use cases (#6732)
ovh/docs: pages/public_cloud/containers_orchestration/managed_kubernetes/expose_your_applications_using_a_load_balancer/guide.en-gb.md

- **The Subnet's GatewayIP is already used by an OVHcloud Gateway**, nothing needs to be done. The current OVHcloud Gateway (OpenStack Router) will be used.
- **The subnet does not have an IP reserved for a Gateway**, you will have to provide or create a compatible subnet. Three options are available:
  - Edit an existing subnet to reserve an IP for a Gateway : please refer to the [Update a subnet properties](/pages/public_cloud/public_cloud_network_services/configuration-04-update_subnet) documentation.
  - Provide another compatible subnet: a subnet with an existing OVHcloud Gateway or with an IP address reserved for a Gateway ([Creating a private network with Gateway](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-gb/public-cloud/gateway/))

>   - Use a subnet dedicated for your load balancer: this option can be used in the OVHcloud Control Panel under `Advanced parameters` > `LoadbalancerS ubnet` or using APIs/Infra as Code using the 'LoadBalancerSubnetID' parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Use a subnet dedicated for your load balancer: this option can be used in the OVHcloud Control Panel under `Advanced parameters` > `Loadbalancer Subnet` or using APIs/Infra as Code using the 'loadBalancersSubnetId' parameter.
```

- **The GatewayIP is already assigned to a non-OVHcloud Gateway (OpenStack Router)**. Two options are available:
  - Provide another compatible subnet: a subnet with an existing OVHcloud Gateway or with an IP address reserved for a Gateway ([Creating a private network with Gateway](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-gb/public-cloud/gateway/))

>   - Use a subnet dedicated for your load balancers: this option can be used in the OVHcloud Control Panel under `Advanced parameters` > `Loadbalancer Subnet` or using APIs/Infra as Code with the 'LoadBalancerSubnetID' parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Use a subnet dedicated for your load balancers: this option can be used in the OVHcloud Control Panel under `Advanced parameters` > `Loadbalancer Subnet` or using APIs/Infra as Code with the 'loadBalancersSubnetId' parameter.
```

  type: LoadBalancer
```

> [!warning]
>

> > A single OpenStack Gateway is spawn for all your LoadBalancers. Even the flavors choose for yours LoadBalancers spawn in this mode, the Gateway is, by default, a small one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> A single OpenStack Gateway is spawned for all your LoadBalancers, the Gateway is a small one by default.
```

> > In Public-To-Public mode, the gateway may throttle your LoadBalancers's capacity. To increase the capacity of an OpenStack router, use the OVHcloud Manager to modify your gateway in a larger size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> In Public-To-Public mode, the gateway may throttle your LoadBalancers's capacity. To increase the capacity of an OpenStack router, use the OVHcloud Manager to modify your gateway with a larger size.
```

  This annotation is automatically added and it contains the Floating IP address of the load balancer service.
  When using `loadbalancer.openstack.org/hostname` annotation it is the only place to see the real address of the load balancer.

### Annotations not supported

- `loadbalancer.openstack.org/availability-zone`

  The name of the loadbalancer availability zone to use. It is ignored if the Octavia version doesn't support availability zones yet.

- `loadbalancer.openstack.org/x-forwarded-for`

>   If you want perform Layer 7 load balancing we do recommend using the official Octavia Ingress-controller: <https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/octavia-ingress-controller/using-octavia-ingress-controller.md>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If you want to perform Layer 7 load balancing we do recommend using the official Octavia Ingress-controller: <https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/octavia-ingress-controller/using-octavia-ingress-controller.md>
```

> Changing the LoadBalancer class of your Service will lead to the creation of a new Loadbalancer and the allocation of a new Public IP (Floating IP).
>

### Use an existing FloatingIP in the tenant

To use an available FloatingIP to your K8S LoadBalancer, use the field `.spec.loadBalancerIP` to find this FloatingIP in your tenant.

- If the FloatingIP is not found, the LoadBalancer will be stuck during the provisionning

> - If the FloatingIP is already assigned to another component, the assignement will be performed only when the FloatingIP will be available (the LoadBalancer is still provisionned)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the FloatingIP is already assigned to another component, the LoadBalancer will be provisioned. The FloatingIP will only be assigned when the FloatingIP becomes available.
```

>
> Note: the FloatingIP must be in the same region as the MKS cluster. A FloatingIP cannot be moved to another OpenStack region.
>

### Use a fixed Virtual-IP (VIP) for the LoadBalancer in the subnet

To assign a fixed VIP to the LoadBalancer in the OpenStack subnet, you have to create an OpenStack Port. e.g. with the OpenStack CLI:

```shell
openstack port create --network <network> --fixed-ip subnet=<subnet>,ip-address=10.2.3.4 my-fixed-octavia-vip
```

Then use the annotation `loadbalancer.openstack.org/port-id` with the OpenStack port's UUID:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: octavia-with-fixed-vip
  annotations:
    loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia"
    loadbalancer.openstack.org/port-id: "<openstack-port-uuid>"
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
```

> [!warning]
>
> This feature is only supported when the MKS cluster is attached to a private network. (Public MKS is not supported)
> The port needs to belong to the same network/subnet as the MKS cluster.
> This feature is not compatible when the MKS cluster is configured with a LoadBalancerSubnetId (except if is the same as the NodeSubnetID).
>

### Restrict access for a LoadBalancer Service

> To apply IP restriction to the K8S LoadBalancer Service, you can define the array `.spec.loadBalancerSourceRanges` with a list of CIDR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To apply IP restriction to the K8S LoadBalancer Service, you can define the array `.spec.loadBalancerSourceRanges` with a list of CIDR ranges.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: octavia-ip-restrictions
  annotations:
    loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia"
spec:
  loadBalancerSourceRanges:
  - 1.2.3.4/32
  - 5.6.7.0/24
  type: LoadBalancer
```

If no value is assigned to this spec, no restriction will be applyed.

### Sharing a Octavia LoadBalancer between multiple Kubernetes LoadBalancer Services

> You can share up to two Kubernetes Services on the same Octavia LoadBalancer. Those Services can be deployed on different MKS clusters (clusters must be in the same network).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can share an Octavia LoadBalancer with up to two Kubernetes Services. These Services can be deployed on different MKS clusters (clusters must be in the same network).
```

K8S services must expose different protocol/port (you cannot set the same protocol/port on both K8S Services). [Sharing load balancer with multiple Services (Github)](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/openstack-cloud-controller-manager/expose-applications-using-loadbalancer-type-service.md#sharing-load-balancer-with-multiple-services)

> To allow another K8S LoadBalancer Service to use an existing Octavia (created via MKS or via OpenStack), use the annotation `loadbalancer.openstack.org/load-balancer-id`:

Reviewer 2: Do you think we could have an additional about "Importing an existing octavia load balancer", or do we consider it's already covered by the CCM docs?

Reviewer 2: Wait I missed line 320, sorry, but would it be worth it to have a dedicated section or not?

Author: IMO, yes, to have a clearly section where we can report limitations of the SharedLoadbalancer feature.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: octavia-basic-shared
  annotations:
    loadbalancer.ovhcloud.com/class: "octavia"
    loadbalancer.openstack.org/load-balancer-id: "<existing-octavia-uuid>"
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
```

> [!warning]
>

> > If you want to delete a MKS cluster which is using SharedLoadBalancer feature, we strongly recommand you to delete K8S Service which using it to avoid any issue (like remaining Octavia LoadBalancer, configuration not removed, ...)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If you want to delete a MKS cluster which is using SharedLoadBalancer feature, we strongly recommend you to delete the K8S Service which using it to avoid any issue (like remaining Octavia LoadBalancer, configuration not removed, ...).
```
